FotoForensics
http://fotoforensics.com/

Rating: 5/5

What it does:
You submit a JPEG or PNG to them (via url or local file) and their system analyse its meta data to show
what program may have loaded it, any changes that may ahve been made, etc.

How to:
Once an image has been uploaded, fotoforensics offers five btis of info (at the top left of the page):

	Digest:
		A short and simple summary of the file. ITs name, type, size, and checksum values.
		
	ELA:
		A visualization of the Error Level Analysis.
		
	JPEG %:
		An estimation of the quality level the image was last saved at.
		
	Metadata:
		More detailed data about the image. Including up to: encoding process used, bits per sample, opened in photoshop or not, etc.
		
	Original:
		The original image.

While the metadata and digest hold some nice info, the real use of this tool is the ELA visualization. ELA (Error Level Analysis) takes 
advantage of the way PNGs and JPEGs are compressed before saving to pick out areas that may have been tampered with. When a PNG/JPEG image 
is saved, it samples individual cells of the image (10px*10px for example) to normalize and compress their colour data. If an entire block 
is the same color, for example, rather than save 100 pixels of the same color, the compression algorithm can save the entire block as that 
color, thus compressing the data 100 times over. Basically, the compression algorithm attempts to simplify the color information as much as 
possible. Each time a PNG/JPEG is saved, the color inromation is simplified a bit more. After enough saves, no more compression can occur. 
FotoForensics presents a visulization of this ELA (or compression of color information) to the user and their own tutorial covers it in much 
more detail. http://fotoforensics.com/tutorial-ela.php

The quick and dirty of how to use it:
BLACK areas represent complete compression of color information. More black means the image has been re-saved more times.
WHITE represents a high ELA value.
RED + BLUE 'rainbow-ing' suggests the use of an Adobe product (but not a guarantee).

The use of the tool comes by comparing color areas and then to the original. For example, a black area will usually appear as a solid color 
on the original image, and means the image has been re-saved enough times to remove all ELA from that patch. If a white patch of ELA color appears next to this black area, and the original image corresponding to the white patch is a mostly uniform color, this would indicate that the white patch area was edited, or added in later (is not original in comparison to the black rated area).

Basically, this tool will help you to detect edited images and call fake with more evidence. Give thier tutorials and case examples a read. Throw in your own 'fake' images, and become a photoshop spotting pro!